PORT-13800 Github Copilot Integration (#2195)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/ai-agents/github-copilot/github-copilot.md

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import PortTooltip from "/src/components/tooltip/tooltip.jsx"
import Prerequisites from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean_helm_prerequisites_block.mdx"
import AzurePremise from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean_azure_premise.mdx"
import HelmParameters from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean-advanced-parameters-helm.mdx"
import DockerParameters from "./\_github_copilot_one_time_docker_parameters.mdx"
import AdvancedConfig from '/docs/generalTemplates/\_ocean_advanced_configuration_note.md'
import PortApiRegionTip from "/docs/generalTemplates/_port_region_parameter_explanation_template.md"
import OceanSaasInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_saas_installation.mdx"
import OceanRealtimeInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_realtime_installation.mdx"

> # Github Copilot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# GitHub Copilot
```

Port's Github Copilot integration allows you to ingest your Github Copilot usage metrics into your software catalog.

> ### Supported aggregation hierarchies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported aggregation hierarchies
```

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import PortTooltip from "/src/components/tooltip/tooltip.jsx"
import Prerequisites from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean_helm_prerequisites_block.mdx"
import AzurePremise from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean_azure_premise.mdx"
import HelmParameters from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/\_ocean-advanced-parameters-helm.mdx"
import DockerParameters from "./\_github_copilot_one_time_docker_parameters.mdx"
import AdvancedConfig from '/docs/generalTemplates/\_ocean_advanced_configuration_note.md'
import PortApiRegionTip from "/docs/generalTemplates/_port_region_parameter_explanation_template.md"
import OceanSaasInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_saas_installation.mdx"
import OceanRealtimeInstallation from "/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_realtime_installation.mdx"

# Github Copilot

Port's Github Copilot integration allows you to ingest your Github Copilot usage metrics into your software catalog.

> 
> ## Overview
> This integration allows you to:
> 
> - Map and organize your Github Copilot usage metrics in Port (see supported aggregation hierarchies below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Supported Aggregation Hierarchies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Supported aggregation hierarchies
```

> There are few aggregation hierarchies of Github Copilot usage metrics supported by Github that can be ingested into Port, those are listed below.  
> It is possible to reference any field that appears in the API responses linked below in the mapping configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some aggregation hierarchies of Github Copilot usage metrics can be ingested into Port, they are listed below.  
It is possible to reference any field that appears in the API responses linked below in the mapping configuration.
```

        -e OCEAN__INITIALIZE_PORT_RESOURCES=true \
        -e OCEAN__SEND_RAW_DATA_EXAMPLES=true \
        -e OCEAN__INTEGRATION__CONFIG__GITHUB_TOKEN=$OCEAN__INTEGRATION__CONFIG__GITHUB_TOKEN \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_ID=$OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_ID \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_SECRET=$OCEAN__PORT__CLIENT_SECRET \
        -e OCEAN__PORT__BASE_URL='https://api.getport.io' \
        $IMAGE_NAME

  rules: # Run only when changes are made to the main branch
    - if: '$CI_COMMIT_BRANCH == "main"'
```

</TabItem>

  </Tabs>

  <PortApiRegionTip/>

  <AdvancedConfig/>

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Configuration

Port integrations use a [YAML mapping block](/build-your-software-catalog/customize-integrations/configure-mapping#configuration-structure) to ingest data from the third-party api into Port.

The mapping makes use of the [JQ JSON processor](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/) to select, modify, concatenate, transform and perform other operations on existing fields and values from the integration API.

## Permissions

Port's Github Copilot integration requires a classic Github token with at least one of the following scopes to be enabled:

> -  `manage_billing:copilot`;
> - `read:org`;
> - `read:enterprise`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `manage_billing:copilot`.
- `read:org`.
- `read:enterprise`.
```

## Examples

> To view and test the integration's mapping against examples of the third-party API responses, use the jq playground in your [data sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources). Find the integration in the list of data sources and click on it to open the playground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view and test the integration's mapping against examples of the third-party API responses, use the jq playground in your [data sources page](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-sources).  
Find the integration in the list of data sources and click on it to open the playground.
```
